Add deep linking page (#5244)
flutter/website: src/docs/development/ui/navigation/deep-linking.md

---
title: Deep linking
description: Navigate to routes when the app receives a new URL
---

Flutter now supports deep linking on iOS and Android. Any link matching the

> configured scheme will be handled by the Navigator. By following these steps,

Author: We're going to refer to Navigator as the Navigator and Navigator 2 as the Router widget for now.

> configured scheme will be handled by the Navigator. By following these steps,

Author: I'll make this code fonted since it's referring to a specific class.

| iOS (not launched)       | App gets initialRoute ("/") and a short time after gets a pushRoute | App gets initialRoute ("/") and a short time after uses the RouteInformationParser to parse the route and call RouterDelegate.setNewRoutePath, which configures the Navigator with the corresponding Page. |
| Android - (not launched) | App gets initialRoute containing the full route ("http:/deeplink/") | App gets initialRoute ("/deeplink") and passes it to the RouteInformationParser to parse the route and call RouterDelegate.setNewRoutePath, which configures the Navigator with the corresponding Pages.   |
| iOS (launched)           | pushRoute is called                                                 | Path is parsed, and the Navigator is configured with a new set of Pages.                                                                                                                                   |

> | Android (launched)       | pushRoute is called                                                 | Path is parsed, and the Navigator is configured with a new set of Pages.                                                                                                                                   |

Author: This table currently doesn't look very good, maybe there's a better way to format this?

---
title: Deep linking
description: Navigate to routes when the app receives a new URL
---

{{site.alert.note}}
This feature is only available on the dev or master channel. See [Switching
Flutter channels][switching-channels] for more information.
{{site.alert.end}}

> Flutter supports deep linking on iOS and Android in the dev channel. Any link

Author: I'll add web to this sentence. The second paragraph discusses web behavior.

> matching the configured scheme will be handled by the `Navigator`. By following

Author: I decided to replace this sentence with a softer explanation " Users opening a URL will display a specific screen in your app."

these steps, your can launch and display routes via named routes (either with
the [`routes`][routes] parameter or [`onGenerateRoute`][onGenerateRoute]), or by

> using the [Router][] widget.

Reviewer: Given that we've publicly called the new mechanism Navigator 2, we need to be clear what we are talking about here. This needs another note.  (I can't remember exactly what you said about the naming, but we need to be clear and I haven't seen this said anywhere else.) Something along the lines of.

```
{{site.alert.secondary}}
  **Version note:** You might be familiar with [Navigator 2.0][].
  When referring to the updated navigator mechanism, we now
  call it..."
{{site.alert.end}}
```

Author: Will try to get an answer on this.

    -d "http://flutterbooksample.com/book/1"
```

See the [Verify Android App Links][verify-android-links] documentation for more
details.

## Enable deep linking on iOS
Add two new keys to `Info.plist` in the ios/Runner directory:

```
<key>FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled</key>
<true/>
<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
    <dict>
    <key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
    <string>Editor</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLName</key>
    <string>flutterbooksample.com</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
    <array>
    <string>customscheme</string>
    </array>
    </dict>
</array>
```

The `CFBundleURLName` is a unique URL used to distinguish your app from others
that use the same scheme. The scheme (`customscheme://`)  can also be unique to
help avoid conflicts.

A full restart is required to apply these changes.

## Test on iOS simulator
The `xcrun` command can be used to test on the iOS Simulator:

```
xcrun simctl openurl booted customscheme://flutterbooksample.com/book/1 
```

## Migrating from plugin-based deep linking

If you have written a plugin to handle deep links, as described in ["Deep Links
and Flutter applications" on Medium][plugin-linking], it will continue to work

> until you opt-in to this behavior by adding `FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled` to

Reviewer 2: Adding the property is optional for iOS to enable deeplink. Flutter Deep Link is handled by default for iOS.

or the behavior need to be fixed, as it defers from Android.

Author: https://github.com/flutter/engine/pull/22356 should disable it unless `FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled` is provided in `Info.plist`.

Reviewer 2: @johnpryan If you look into the code here: https://github.com/flutter/engine/blob/6ba12fa2300e027916a928e2a617956f6a9763e8/shell/platform/darwin/ios/framework/Source/FlutterAppDelegate.mm#L135-L177

The deeplink is disabled if `FlutterDeeplinkEnabled` property if false.Otherwise it's handled anyway.

Author: > The deeplink is disabled if FlutterDeeplinkingEnabled property is false. Otherwise it's handled anyway.

`IsDeepLinkingEnabled` returns NO if `FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled`. So this feature is opt-in:

```
static BOOL IsDeepLinkingEnabled(NSDictionary* infoDictionary) {
  NSNumber* isEnabled = [infoDictionary objectForKey:@"FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled"];
  if (isEnabled) {
    return [isEnabled boolValue];
  } else {
    return NO;
  }
}
```

Author: Shams, this section applies to both Android and iOS.

Reviewer 2: @johnpryan Please look for the usage of the method you added.

```
if( not IsDeepLinkingEnabled)
    return NO
else 
    handle deeplink
```

Reviewer: SG

---
title: Deep linking
description: Navigate to routes when the app receives a new URL
---

{{site.alert.note}}

>   This feature is only available on the dev or master channel. See [Switching
>   Flutter channels][switching-channels] for more information.

Reviewer: It's always best to say WHY before you say SEE. (It's even in our developer doc style guide).

```suggestion
  This feature is only available on the dev or master channel. To learn how to switch
  channels, see [Switching Flutter channels][switching-channels].
```

{{site.alert.end}}

> Flutter supports deep linking on iOS, Android and web browsers in the dev
> channel. Users opening a URL will display a specific screen in your app. By
> following these steps, your can launch and display routes via named routes
> (either with the [`routes`][routes] parameter or
> [`onGenerateRoute`][onGenerateRoute]), or by using the [Router][] widget.

Reviewer: I didn't understand "Users opening a URL will display a specific screen in your app." I tried to clarify, but I might have missed your intent.

Also, please stop using VIA. Engs just LOVE via, but it's against our developer writing guidelines.

```suggestion
Flutter supports deep linking on iOS, Android, and web browsers in the dev
channel. Opening a URL displays that screen in your app. With the
following steps, you can launch and display routes by using named routes
(either with the [`routes`][routes] parameter or
[`onGenerateRoute`][onGenerateRoute]), or by using the [`Router`][Router] widget.
```

{{site.alert.secondary}}

>   [Navigator 2.0][] is now called [Router][], which allows you to declaratively
>   set the routes are currently shown based on your app state. This API is
>   opt-in.

Reviewer: The "secondary" style of note needs bolded title text, which is why we use this type of note.

I know that before I said don't have identical words in the second set of square brackets, but to stick with your style of using the second pair of brackets to avoid code fonting, I changed this text to use that pattern.

```suggestion
  **Version note:** [Navigator 2.0][] is now called [`Router`][Router], which allows
  you to declaratively set the displayed routes based on the app's current state.
  This API is opt-in.
```

{{site.alert.end}}

> If you're running the app in a web browser,  there's no additional setup
> required. Route paths are handled in the same way as an iOS or Android deep
> link. Web apps currently read the path from the url fragment by default
> (`/#/path/to/app/screen`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running the app in a web browser, there's no additional setup
required. Route paths are handled in the same way as an iOS or Android deep
link. By default, web apps read the deep link path from the url fragment
using the pattern: `/#/path/to/app/screen`.
```

> To follow along, create a new Flutter project with [the Router widget
> sample][router-sample] in flutter/samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow along, create a new Flutter project with [the `Router` widget
sample][router-sample] in flutter/samples.
```

## Enable deep linking on Android

Add a metadata tag and [intent filter][] to `AndroidManifest.xml`
inside the `<activity> `tag with the `".MainActivity"` name:

```
<!-- Deep linking -->
<meta-data android:name="flutter_deeplinking_enabled" android:value="true" />
<intent-filter android:autoVerify="true">
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data android:scheme="http" android:host="flutterbooksample.com" />
    <data android:scheme="https" />
</intent-filter>
```

A full restart is required to apply these changes.

## Test on Android emulator
To test with an Android emulator, give the `adb` command an intent where the
host name matches the name defined in `AndroidManifest.xml`. The host name

> should match the name defined in `AndroidManifest.xml`:

Reviewer: These two sentences are identical. You don't need both.

```
adb shell am start -a android.intent.action.VIEW \
    -c android.intent.category.BROWSABLE \
    -d "http://flutterbooksample.com/book/1"
```

> See the [Verify Android App Links][verify-android-links] documentation for more
> details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see the [Verify Android App Links][verify-android-links]
documentation in the Android docs.
```

## Enable deep linking on iOS
Add two new keys to `Info.plist` in the ios/Runner directory:

```
<key>FlutterDeepLinkingEnabled</key>
<true/>
<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
    <dict>
    <key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
    <string>Editor</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLName</key>
    <string>flutterbooksample.com</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
    <array>
    <string>customscheme</string>
    </array>
    </dict>
</array>
```

The `CFBundleURLName` is a unique URL used to distinguish your app from others
that use the same scheme. The scheme (`customscheme://`)  can also be unique to

> help avoid conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion avoid conflicts.
```

| Android - (not launched) | App gets initialRoute containing the full route ("http:/deeplink/") | App gets initialRoute ("/deeplink") and passes it to the RouteInformationParser to parse the route and call RouterDelegate.setNewRoutePath, which configures the Navigator with the corresponding Pages.   |
| iOS (launched)           | pushRoute is called                                                 | Path is parsed, and the Navigator is configured with a new set of Pages.                                                                                                                                   |
| Android (launched)       | pushRoute is called                                                 | Path is parsed, and the Navigator is configured with a new set of Pages.                                                                                                                                   |
{:.table.table-striped}
</div>

> After upgrading to the Router widget, your app has the ability to replace the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After upgrading to the [`Router`][Router] widget, your app has the ability to replace the
```

current set of pages when a new deep link is opened while the app is running.

> [switching-channels]: /docs/development/tools/sdk/upgrading#switching-flutter-channels
> [routes]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/MaterialApp/routes.html
> [onGenerateRoute]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/MaterialApp/onGenerateRoute.html
> [Router]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Router-class.html
> [Navigator 2.0]: https://medium.com/flutter/learning-flutters-new-navigation-and-routing-system-7c9068155ade
> [intent filter]: https://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters
> [plugin-linking]: https://medium.com/flutter-community/deep-links-and-flutter-applications-how-to-handle-them-properly-8c9865af9283
> [verify-android-links]: https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/verify-site-associations
> [router-sample]: https://github.com/flutter/samples/blob/master/navigation_and_routing/lib/nav_2/router.dart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[switching-channels]: /docs/development/tools/sdk/upgrading#switching-flutter-channels
[routes]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/MaterialApp/routes.html
[onGenerateRoute]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/MaterialApp/onGenerateRoute.html
[Router]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Router-class.html
[Navigator 2.0]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/flutter/learning-flutters-new-navigation-and-routing-system-7c9068155ade
[intent filter]: https://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters
[plugin-linking]: {{site.medium}}/flutter-community/deep-links-and-flutter-applications-how-to-handle-them-properly-8c9865af9283
[verify-android-links]: https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/verify-site-associations
[router-sample]: {{site.github}}/flutter/samples/blob/master/navigation_and_routing/lib/nav_2/router.dart
```
